Now that we have a better idea of some these different pieces of terminology let's start to write some
code rather than directly focusing on creating a maze like this right here which will end up being rather
complicated.
We're going to instead do a little demo first just to kind of get a handle on exactly what matter J.S.
is.
So we are going to re implement this demo that you see right here where we essentially have a bunch
of shapes all in a pile and we can drag one around and move them all when they all get kind of collisions
between each them.
So first build this then rebuild over to the maze type implementation.
So let's get to it.
I'm going to first go back over to my code editor and inside my index dot J.S. file I'm going to first
get started by requiring in or getting access to a couple of different objects out of the matter library.
So I gonna say concept.
And then gonna do some D structuring and I'm going to get access to engine render runner world and bodies
and that's all going to come from matter like so so when we included the matter script tag back inside
of index dot HCM L that added in a new global variable of matter and that is essentially the matter
j ust library so everything we're going to work with is contained inside that object in order to create
an engine render bla bla.
All this stuff we're going to pull out some of these different objects and then work with them inside
this file they'll notice that a lot of these terms right here are the same ones that we just discussed
in the last video.
So we're going to use the engine to essentially transition from a current state of our entire world
or all the shapes we have into some new states.
The render is going to be used to draw this stuff onto the screen.
The runner is going to coordinate updates between the engine and the world and then I had said on that
diagram body bodies is kind of a reference to the entire collection of all the different shapes we can
create.
Essentially the same thing we saw on the diagram.
So bodies object represents our ability to create circles rectangle squares and so on then instead of
here we're gonna write out some boilerplate code.
Now once again it's not strictly necessary for you to 100 percent understand all the lines we're about
to write.
I just want you to have some terminology so you understand some of the boilerplate but at the end of
the day a lot of stuff that's just gets duplicated between all the different matter apps you might end
up creating the person we're going to do is create a new engine by saying engine dot create we're then
going to get access to a world that creek got created along with that engine.
So I'll say const world is coming from mentioned it's technically when we create an engine we get a
world object along with it.
And again a world is kind of like a snapshot of all the different shapes so we have after that will
then create our render object.
So this is what is going to actually show some content on the screen.
I'll say const render is render dot create and we're gonna pass it in options object inside of here
we're going to tell the render where we want to show our representation of everything inside of our
e-mail documents.
So going to say element is document dot body.
So in other words go and render the representation the world inside of document dot body.
And this is a additive process.
In other words it's not going to destroy all the content that we already have inside of our body element.
It's going to instead add in a new additional element to the body element after that.
We're going to specify what engine to use and we'll pass in also an options object inside the options
object.
I'm going to specify the height and width of our canvas element that's going to be used to display all
this content.
So going to put in a width of 800 and a height of six hundred.
So these are pixel values right here.
So we're saying give me something that is a hundred units wide and 600 elements tall.
Then after that we're going to tell our render element or our render object to start working and start
to draw all the updates of our world onto the screen.
It's all say render dot run I'll pass in lowercase render.
That the actual render object that we just created and then I'll call runner dot run with runner dot
create and engine.
So again the runner right here is what coordinates all these changes from state to state B of our engine
though it's just that we should build to save this and then go back over and see something appear on
the screen.
It's gonna go back over my browser I'll refresh and I see a big black box appear.
So this is where we're going to eventually see all of our shapes appear over time.
So now we can start to think about how we just add a very simple in plain shape to add a simple shape
to our world down here.
I'm going to say concept shape is bodies dot rectangle.
I'm going to pass on a couple of dimensions for this thing.
We'll talk about exactly what these dimensions represent in just a moment.
I can put in here two hundred two hundred fifty fifty.
And then an options object.
And inside that options object I'll say is static is true.
Like so then after that I'll call world dot add I'll pass in the world that we got just a little bit
ago when we created our engine right there and then as a second argument I'll pass in the shape that
I just created like so okay.
So we'll talk about what that code is doing in just a moment but first let's save this.
Go back over and we can see a shape up here inside of our element.
So that's the basics of getting something to show up on the screen.
But obviously we just wrote out a lot of code that's possibly really mysterious.
So let's talk about what's going on here.
After a very quick break.